✅ 1. Open UFW (via Terminal)
UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall) is a command-line tool.
sudo ufw status verbose
If inactive:
sudo ufw enable
✅ 2. List Current Firewall Rules
sudo ufw status numbered
✅ 3. Add Rule to Block Inbound Port 23 (Telnet)
sudo ufw deny 23
✅ 4. Test the Block Rule
You can test with tools like telnet or nmap from another system or locally:
telnet localhost 23
Expected output: Connection refused or failed.

✅ 5. Add Rule to Allow SSH (Port 22)
sudo ufw allow ssh
or explicitly:
sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
✅ 6. Remove the Block Rule (Restore State)
Check the numbered rules:
sudo ufw status numbered
Then delete the rule by number (e.g., if it’s rule 3):
sudo ufw delete 3
✅ 7. Documented Commands Summary
sudo ufw enable
sudo ufw status numbered
sudo ufw deny 23
telnet localhost 23       # (to test)
sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
sudo ufw delete [rule number]  # remove Telnet block
✅ 8. Firewall Summary – How UFW Filters Traffic
UFW acts as a front-end for iptables and applies rules at the kernel level.

It filters incoming and outgoing traffic based on rules.

You define whether to allow or deny connections to ports or IP ranges.

Default behavior: Deny all incoming, allow all outgoing unless specified otherwise.

🔒 Windows (Using Windows Defender Firewall)
✅ 1. Open Windows Firewall Configuration Tool
Press Windows + R, type wf.msc, and press Enter.

Or: Go to Control Panel > System and Security > Windows Defender Firewall > Advanced Settings

✅ 2. List Current Rules
In the left pane, click Inbound Rules.

Scroll through the list to view existing rules.

✅ 3. Block Inbound Port 23 (Telnet)
In Inbound Rules, click New Rule (right pane).

Select Port, click Next.

Choose TCP, enter 23, click Next.

Choose Block the connection, click Next.

Apply to Domain, Private, Public profiles.

Name the rule "Block Telnet Port 23", click Finish.

✅ 4. Test the Rule
Open Command Prompt and run:
telnet localhost 23
Expected: It fails to connect.

✅ 5. Allow Port 22 (for SSH)
Repeat New Rule, but this time:

Port: 22

Action: Allow the connection

Name: "Allow SSH Port 22"

✅ 6. Remove the Test Block Rule
Go to Inbound Rules

Find "Block Telnet Port 23"

Right-click → Delete

✅ 7. Documented GUI Steps Summary
Task	Steps
Open Firewall Settings	wf.msc or Control Panel path
List Rules	View Inbound Rules
Block Port 23	New Rule → Port → TCP 23 → Block → Apply to all → Name it
Allow SSH Port 22	New Rule → Port → TCP 22 → Allow → Apply to all → Name it
Remove Rule	Right-click the rule → Delete

✅ 8. Firewall Summary – How Windows Firewall Filters Traffic
Uses rules to allow or block network traffic by port, app, protocol, or IP.

Distinguishes between inbound (into the device) and outbound (from the device) traffic.

Applies different rules for Domain, Private, and Public network profiles.

📸 Deliverables to Submit
Linux: Screenshot of terminal showing:

sudo ufw status numbered

Attempt to connect to blocked port

Windows: Screenshot of:

The new inbound rule for Telnet

Rule list showing the block rule

Test result in Command Prompt (e.g., failed telnet)
